# 3.3 Packet Multiplex

An RTMFP typically has one or more interfaces through which it communicates with other RTMFP endpoints.  RTMFP can communicate with multiple distinct other RTMFP endpoints through each local interface. Session multiplexing over a shared interface can facilitate peer-to-peer communications through a NAT, by enabling third party endpoints such as Forwarders ([Section 3.5.1.5][1]) and Redirectors ([Section 3.5.1.4][2]) to observe the translated public address and inform peers of the translation.

An interface is typically a UDP socket ([Section 2.2.1][3]), but MAY be any suitable datagram transport service where endpoints can be addressed by IPv4 or IPv6 socket addresses. 

RTMFP uses a session ID to multiplex and demultiplex communications with distinct endpoints ([Section 2.2.2][4]), in addition to the endpoint socket address.  This allows an RTMFP to detect a far-end address change (as might happen for example in mobile and wireless scenarios) and for communication sessions to survive address changes.  This also allows an RTMFP to act as a Forwarder or Redirector for an endpoint with which it has an active session, by distinguishing startup packets from those of the active session.

On receiving a packet, an RTMFP decodes the session ID to look up the corresponding session information context and decryption key. Session ID 0 is reserved for session startup and MUST NOT be used for an active session.  A packet for session ID 0 uses the Default Session Key as defined by the Cryptography Profile.


[1]:    ./3.5.1.5_Forwarder.md
[2]:    ./3.5.1.4_Redirector.md
[3]:    ../2_Syntax/2.2.1_Encapsulation.md
[4]:    ../2_Syntax/2.2.1_Encapsulation.md
